source/documentation/publish_and_manage_data/add_data.md, before:

# Add data manually

If you don’t want to [automatically harvest datasets](../harvest_data), you can add a dataset to data.gov.uk using an online form. You must submit one form per dataset.

>You cannot use the form for publishing INSPIRE/Location data. See the guidance on [harvesting INSPIRE data](../inspire) for more information.

Sign into the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/).

1. Go to **Datasets**.
1. Select **Add dataset**.
1. Complete the fields with information about the dataset.
1. Add contact details for the dataset.
1. Select **Next**.

You can submit 2 sets of contact details per dataset. One set of contact details should be used for Freedom of Information (FOI) requests only.

You can edit the dataset information anytime after it’s published.

Once you have added information about the dataset, you can add the dataset itself.

1. Select **Add new resource**.
1. Complete the fields.
1. Select **Publish**.

>As a signed in user, you’ll see any new datasets or changes immediately. However, changes may take up to one hour to appear to end users. Please be aware of this when notifying people or announcing releases.

## Publishing organograms

Organograms are a description of the roles and salaries in the UK government at a particular point in time. They are an important publication in the government's effort to improve transparency of how the public sector manages resources.

Central government and agencies must publish organograms of all staff positions on data.gov.uk every 6 months. Organograms are published:

* in a [collection of visualisations](https://data.gov.uk/search?q=organogram)
* as raw data in CSV format

Some organisations, such as intelligence agencies, are exempt from publishing organograms.

Local authorities must publish senior staff data in a [different format](http://schemas.opendata.esd.org.uk/OrganisationStructure).

For detailed policy guidance about publishing organograms, email the Cabinet Office transparency team at transparencydatateam@cabinetoffice.gov.uk.

### When to publish organograms

You must publish the data twice a year. Take a ‘snapshot’ of the roles on 31 March and 6 September and publish them on data.gov.uk by 6 June and 6 December respectively.

### What to include

You must fill in the [standard organogram template](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/publisher-files/Blank_Organogram_Template_latest.xls) with the details of your department's SCS 1 and 2 employees.

### How to publish an organogram

Follow these instructions if your organisation does not already have an organogram dataset.

1. Create your organogram using the [standard organogram template](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/publisher-files/Blank_Organogram_Template_latest.xls).
2. Sign into the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/).
3. Select **Datasets**.
4. Select **Add dataset**.
5. Complete the fields with information about the organogram.
6. Select the appropriate schema for your organogram. Use:
  * **Organisation structure including roles roles & salaries** for central government organograms
  * **Organisation structure (for LGTC by LGA)** for local authority organograms
7. Select **Next**.
8. Upload or link to the organogram and complete the remaining fields.
9. Select **Publish**.

A new dataset containing the organogram will be created. Add all future organograms for this organisation to this dataset.

See the [organogram schema documentation](https://github.com/datagovuk/schemas/tree/master/organogram) for more information.  

### Add an organogram to a dataset

If your organisation already has an organogram dataset, you should add all new organograms to that dataset.

1. Sign into the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/).
1. Select **Datasets**.
1. Search for the organogram dataset of your organisation.
1. Select the dataset.
1. Select **Manage**.
1. Select **Add data**.
1. Select **Add new resource**.  
1. Link or upload the data.
1. Select **Publish**.

The new organogram will be added to the existing dataset.

## Add spend data

Central and local government bodies (including NHS) must publish the details of their expenditure transactions every month. This guidance explains how to add these details to data.gov.uk.

### About spend data

Central government must publish spend data one month in arrears. HM Treasury provides [advice on publishing spend over £25,000](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-for-publishing-spend-over-25000), including templates and published examples.

Local government must publish information every month or as soon as it becomes available. The [local government transparency code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/local-government-transparency-code-2015) explains what local authorities should publish and when.  

### Add new spend data

To add a new dataset, sign into the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/).  

1. Find the dataset you want to update.
1. Select **Manage**.
1. Select **Add data**.
1. Select **Add new resource** and add details of the dataset you want to upload.
1. Select **Publish**.

The new data will be added to the existing dataset.

>Each organisation should only have one dataset for spend over £25,000 and another for GPC spend data. Do not create a brand new dataset for each month.

Commit message:

Change heading to be more precise about the actions described
This relates to the previous commit about making sure we distinguish 
between publishing an organogram as part of a new dataset and publishing 
an organogram as part of an exisitng dataset.

source/documentation/publish_and_manage_data/add_data.md, after:

# Add data manually

If you don’t want to [automatically harvest datasets](../harvest_data), you can add a dataset to data.gov.uk using an online form. You must submit one form per dataset.

>You cannot use the form for publishing INSPIRE/Location data. See the guidance on [harvesting INSPIRE data](../inspire) for more information.

Sign into the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/).

1. Go to **Datasets**.
1. Select **Add dataset**.
1. Complete the fields with information about the dataset.
1. Add contact details for the dataset.
1. Select **Next**.

You can submit 2 sets of contact details per dataset. One set of contact details should be used for Freedom of Information (FOI) requests only.

You can edit the dataset information anytime after it’s published.

Once you have added information about the dataset, you can add the dataset itself.

1. Select **Add new resource**.
1. Complete the fields.
1. Select **Publish**.

>As a signed in user, you’ll see any new datasets or changes immediately. However, changes may take up to one hour to appear to end users. Please be aware of this when notifying people or announcing releases.

## Publishing organograms

Organograms are a description of the roles and salaries in the UK government at a particular point in time. They are an important publication in the government's effort to improve transparency of how the public sector manages resources.

Central government and agencies must publish organograms of all staff positions on data.gov.uk every 6 months. Organograms are published:

* in a [collection of visualisations](https://data.gov.uk/search?q=organogram)
* as raw data in CSV format

Some organisations, such as intelligence agencies, are exempt from publishing organograms.

Local authorities must publish senior staff data in a [different format](http://schemas.opendata.esd.org.uk/OrganisationStructure).

For detailed policy guidance about publishing organograms, email the Cabinet Office transparency team at transparencydatateam@cabinetoffice.gov.uk.

### When to publish organograms

You must publish the data twice a year. Take a ‘snapshot’ of the roles on 31 March and 6 September and publish them on data.gov.uk by 6 June and 6 December respectively.

### What to include

You must fill in the [standard organogram template](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/publisher-files/Blank_Organogram_Template_latest.xls) with the details of your department's SCS 1 and 2 employees.

### Publish an organogram dataset

Follow these instructions if your organisation does not already have an organogram dataset. The instructions help you publish a new dataset containing an organogram. You can then add future organograms to this dataset.

1. Create your organogram using the [standard organogram template](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/publisher-files/Blank_Organogram_Template_latest.xls).
2. Sign into the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/).
3. Select **Datasets**.
4. Select **Add dataset**.
5. Complete the fields with information about the organogram.
6. Select the appropriate schema for your organogram. Use:
  * **Organisation structure including roles roles & salaries** for central government organograms
  * **Organisation structure (for LGTC by LGA)** for local authority organograms
7. Select **Next**.
8. Upload or link to the organogram and complete the remaining fields.
9. Select **Publish**.

A new dataset containing the organogram will be created. Add all future organograms for this organisation to this dataset.

See the [organogram schema documentation](https://github.com/datagovuk/schemas/tree/master/organogram) for more information.  

### Add an organogram to a dataset

If your organisation already has an organogram dataset, you should add all new organograms to that dataset.

1. Sign into the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/).
1. Select **Datasets**.
1. Search for the organogram dataset of your organisation.
1. Select the dataset.
1. Select **Manage**.
1. Select **Add data**.
1. Select **Add new resource**.  
1. Link or upload the data.
1. Select **Publish**.

The new organogram will be added to the existing dataset.

## Add spend data

Central and local government bodies (including NHS) must publish the details of their expenditure transactions every month. This guidance explains how to add these details to data.gov.uk.

### About spend data

Central government must publish spend data one month in arrears. HM Treasury provides [advice on publishing spend over £25,000](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-for-publishing-spend-over-25000), including templates and published examples.

Local government must publish information every month or as soon as it becomes available. The [local government transparency code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/local-government-transparency-code-2015) explains what local authorities should publish and when.  

### Add new spend data

To add a new dataset, sign into the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/).  

1. Find the dataset you want to update.
1. Select **Manage**.
1. Select **Add data**.
1. Select **Add new resource** and add details of the dataset you want to upload.
1. Select **Publish**.

The new data will be added to the existing dataset.

>Each organisation should only have one dataset for spend over £25,000 and another for GPC spend data. Do not create a brand new dataset for each month.
