source/documentation/publish_and_manage_data/get_and_manage_accounts.md, before:

# Get and manage accounts

To publish and manage datasets on data.gov.uk you must have an administrator (admin) or editor account.

Each account is associated with an organisation responsible for the dataset. For example, a local authority or central government department.

Editors and admins can both create and edit datasets, but admins can also:

* add and remove editors
* manage editors’ activity
* update information about their organisation(s)

Editors and admins can join multiple organisations.

## Get an account

To get an account you can ask an existing editor or admin to invite you or register for an account.

### Register for an account

If you can’t find an existing member to invite you, you can [register for an account](https://data.gov.uk/support).

When completing the form, state whether you need editor or admin permissions.

You’ll then be able to add and manage datasets on data.gov.uk.

## Add or remove editors and admins

An organisation can have multiple editors and admins.

You can add additional editors or admins to an organisation via the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/). You must have an admin account for that organisation.

1. Go to the **Publishers** tab.
1. Go to the name of the organisation, then **Manage** > **Members** > **Add member**.
1. Add the email address of the user you want to add.
1. Choose whether you want the user to be an editor or an admin.
1. Select **Add Member** and add the user’s government email address.
1. Select **Add**.

The recipient will receive email instructions on setting up an account.

To remove a user, follow steps 1 and 2. Then select the button with the cross next to their name to remove their permissions.

## Create or edit an organisation

To create a new organisation, [contact the data.gov.uk team](https://data.gov.uk/support).  

Only admins can edit information about an existing organisation.

To edit organisation details you must have an admin account and sign into that account.

1. Select **Publishers**.
1. Select the organisation you want to edit.
1. Select **About**.
1. Select **Manage**.
1. Amend the information you want to change.
1. Select **Update Publisher**.

Commit message:

Clarify permissions and preferred registration approach
The original docs state that admins and editors can invite people to the organisation,
but in reality only admins can do this. I've updated the text to clarify this.

In addition, the docs don't particularly prescribe one way or the other whether or not
you should be added by your admin or by GOV.UK 2nd Line. As GOV.UK 2nd Line direct
you back to your organisation admin as a first port of call, we should make it clearer in this
document that that is the step we advise people to make first, otherwise they may lose
a few days waiting for a response from 2nd line only to be told the same thing.

source/documentation/publish_and_manage_data/get_and_manage_accounts.md, after:

# Get and manage accounts

There are two levels of access on data.gov.uk: editor and administrator (admin).

Editors are able to publish and manage datasets associated with their organisation (for example, a local authority or central government department). Editors and admins can be in multiple organisations.

Admins have the same abilities as editors but can also:

* add and remove editors
* manage editors’ activity
* update information about their organisation(s)

## Get an account

### Get invited by an admin

To get an account, you should ask an existing admin to invite you. This is the fastest and most reliable way to gain access. The admin can follow these [instructions for adding/removing accounts](#add-or-remove-editors-and-admins).

### Register for an account

If there are no admins, or you do not know who the admins for your organisation are, you can [register for an account](https://data.gov.uk/support). This process is slower as it requires a GOV.UK developer to manually process your request.

When completing the form, state whether you need editor or admin permissions.

## Add or remove editors and admins

An organisation can have multiple editors and admins.

As an admin, you can add additional editors or admins to an organisation via the [Data Publisher](https://ckan.publishing.service.gov.uk/).

1. Go to the **Publishers** tab.
1. Go to the name of the organisation, then **Manage** > **Members** > **Add member**.
1. Add the email address of the user you want to add.
1. Choose whether you want the user to be an editor or an admin.
1. Select **Add Member** and add the user’s government email address.
1. Select **Add**.

The recipient will receive email instructions on setting up an account.

To remove a user, follow steps 1 and 2. Then select the button with the cross next to their name to remove their permissions.

## Create or edit an organisation

To create a new organisation, [contact the data.gov.uk team](https://data.gov.uk/support).  

Only admins can edit information about an existing organisation.

To edit organisation details you must have an admin account and sign into that account.

1. Select **Publishers**.
1. Select the organisation you want to edit.
1. Select **About**.
1. Select **Manage**.
1. Amend the information you want to change.
1. Select **Update Publisher**.
